okay Eli you heard the president three
weeks ago you heard his National
Security adviser yesterday has the US
just moved the gopost move the
president's Red
Line well I I think what the Biden
Administration like many other uh uh
American policy makers are learning once
again is that providing largely
unconditional military aid to Israel is
extremely dangerous because Israel has
demonstrated that they are either
unwilling or incapable of abiding by
their own stated rules of engage
engagement let alone American red lines
they they simply aren't behaving like a
professional military you know Israel
bombed World Central Kitchen Aid workers
they killed 45 displaced people in Rafa
using a weapon made by Boeing and
shipped from the United States and they
have now entered into despite what John
Kirby says into what appears to be a
major ground incursion into Rafa it's
becoming increasingly clear that the
Biden White House is either uninterested
in enforcing any red lines on Israel um
or that these red lines maybe simply
don't actually exist oh so why doesn't
Okay so two things I suppose let's start
with this one in that case why doesn't
the president say do what he said he
would do and limit or withdraw military
support for
Israel look I I think they are loathed
to to undertake an action like that um
or to even acknowledge that their red
lines have been crossed and you know I
think there are probably two reasons
that are fair consistent but certainly
one can quibble about how well thought
out they are uh I mean I think on the
domestic political front there is a fear
of offending uh voters and donors coming
into what's going to what's a really
hotly contested American presidential
election uh but there's also the
Strategic reason uh that undergirds this
and which is very consistent across
administrations of doubling down on what
is arguably a failed strategy of you
know embracing the Israelis embracing
Netanyahu closely with the belief that
by doing so one can influence their
decision- making now once again it's
hard to show how that's actually uh
played out here in a way that could
justify that that theory or that
strategy or make one want to continue
pursuing it but it certainly seems to be
a persuasive argument for many policy
makers but but just as a matter of logic
then if Biden doesn't actually want to
limit uh US military support for Israel
why did he say he would it creates an
immediate credibility issue
absolutely and he was facing increasing
domestic let alone International
backlash for the positions that he had
taken of providing this unconditional
support and Aid and I think as a way of
trying to back stop it or as a way of
trying to uh address those concerns and
at this point I would add that you know
he's lost maybe around 3% of the voters
who voted for him in in the previous
election in 2020 are now saying they
might not vote for him again that could
be pretty decisive in swing States so
he's looking to do something to say
something uh and I think that's where
the making statements about the
potential for for freezing weapon sales
for holding them up indeed they did hold
up some weapon weapons transfers that
had been scheduled to to occur uh plays
into it they kind of want to have it
both ways uh and unfortunately by having
it both ways they they might not make
anyone happy okay so you've kind of
addressed this next point but I think
there's a little bit more meat on that
bone is how much do Americans actually
care about what's happening in Rafa and
I assume that's something that's very
you know that's a question Biden must be
asking
himself I mean look when you look at
polling of what drives American votes in
elections foreign policy tends to be
pretty low that said this is looking to
be a razor thin presidential election
you have swing states where a small
percentage of votes may actually
determine the outcome for the entire
country for the election so I think in
this case it could matter a great deal
even if actually where it Stacks up in
terms of voter issues is relatively low
this is me really a a hot hot button
issue for the administration it's
incredibly divisive within the United
States it's incredibly divisive within
Democratic like likely Democratic voters
it's incredibly divisive divisive within
the donor base that but Joe Biden needs
to raise the estimated $1 billion
dollars that one needs now to run a
presidential campaign in this country uh
so I I think he's facing a lot of
competing interests a lot of competing
needs and unfortunately I'm not sure if
the outcome we're getting is actually
beneficial for US National Security or
advances American interests in the world
let alone helps protect innocent people
in Rafa okay Eli Clifton senior adviser
at the Quincy Institute for responsible
statecraft thank you very much for your
time
today thanks for having
me at least two Palestinians have been
killed in an Israeli air strike on a
home in jabalia in Northern Gaza attacks
have intensified there for weeks after
Israeli forces re the north saying Hamas
had regrouped there m al kahut reports
from
jabalia it's obvious that the Israeli
ground Liberation in Northern Gaza Strip
is not over yet for 16 days as the
Israeli forces keep advancing in the
central areas of nothing Gaza Strip the
Israeli forces have a full military
control all over jabalia refugee camp
shik Z
and in addition to alala is under a
heavy art and aerial attacks right now
snipers and quad capters are shooting
every mobile body at this at these
areas and civil defense cannot reach the
dead bodies in the streets just because
of the heavy of fire
there 200,000 Palestinians had to flee
nothing Gaza Strip and the east of
nothing else strip to the West as the
Israeli forces ordered in order to have
a safe place or a
shelter all of these people had to flee
without water or food or even batteries
in order to light up the Dark Knight
there these people are experiencing
unprecedent hardship and a crushing
humanitarian
circumstances and when it comes to food
here famine storms and hit nothing Gaza
again as nothing enters the territory
for a very long time and people here are
asking when this will
end make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer